Across many hospitals within the United States, many facilities have been implementing utilization of telehealth resources to provide prompt care to underserviced hospital systems. One of the largest use cases of emergency telehealth utilization would be emergency consultation of a Neurologist to evaluate and provide expertise on patients experiencing stroke symptoms. In the cases of new onset stroke, a staff member would call a code which will prompt bed-side evaluation of a clinician and assigned medical team to then order emergency computed tomography (CT) of the head. The treatment for newly identified stroke is then dependent on the findings of the head CT scan to determine if the stroke is ischemic or hemorrhagic. While many larger network hospitals have a stroke team within their resource, many rural and community hospitals rely on emergency remote consultations in order to get the proper expertise on cases of new-onset stroke. In this case the remote neurologist would then evaluate the patient’s symptoms and CT scan to initiate an orderset based on the clinical findings. These include a tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) if stroke is found to be ischemic or transfer to the operating room if stroke is hemorrhagic with both cases requiring onboarding of management medications to manage blood pressure. 

Neurologists on call would need remote access to patient data. Data involved includes imaging files from the CT such as Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) file or JPEG file, medical note reports, vitals and labwork. These would typically be found within the patient’s electronic medical record which involves JSON format. Hardware requirements are minimal with the base requirements of a HIPAA-compliant tablet or smart phone for connection to the telehealth provider. For the telehealth provider, hardware requirements are increased because the provider must have a computer that is able to simultaneously run a live-web call to the site and directly connect and upload orders to the patient’s records. This would require access to SQL server and cloud service. For EMR storage and access, the service would have to be hosted on a cloud service with both a storage and database. 

Basic work flow for emergency stroke telehealth consultation would proceed as follows. Staff would initiate a Stroke alert which involves the use of an EMR system of patient’s records and paging system to Clinicians. Clinicians involved would then use a telehealth service to contact an on-call Neurologist for evaluation which could involve a cloud service along with a webcall service. Neurologists then need access to patient’s records which would involve internet use to access the EMR service's cloud, database and storage. Radiology would also need access to patient’s records in order to upload DICOM file images which would involve the use of cloud service and upload into the storage. Then in order for the remote neurologist to input orders, they would use the EMR’s server and on-call webservice to communicate with the primary provider.  
